Container Orchestration with Kubernetes
Kubernetes and its features
Compare Docker swarm and Kubernetes
Installation of Kubernetes on EC2 server - Kubernetes cluster
What is a POD in Kubernetes

Kubernetes: - K8s
1. It is an open source tool
2. It was a product of google and is build using go language
3. Kubernetes is not like docker , you cannot create images in Kubernetes - It is not a container runtime engine (docker)
4. Kubernetes is the next step after docker -> It is container orchestration tool
5. Kubernetes provides  features like:
  - creating n number of containers from 1 image - Replicas
  - Distribute container on many VMs
  - Auto Scaling of containers 
  - High availability of containers
  - rolling update deployment strategy
6. Kubernetes is a production grade orchestration tool
7. Support auto scaling of containers based on the actual user traffic
8. Supports storing of the container data in external storage drivers - NFS, EBS, PD, Azure disk
9. It also is present on all the 3 clouds as a service - AKS, EKS, GKE - readymade kubernetes clusters 
10.In Kubernetes we have jobs and Crons job to schedule creation of containers at a given time 
11. Kubernetes is a production grade tool it supports network policies for secure access to your containers 
12. Kubernetes is a production grade it supports implementation of ingress - network load balancing
13. Kubernetes is a production grade supports RBAC and cluster wide role access


Docker Swarm 
"Doesnot require to be installed
Comes pre installed with Docker"
Exclusive orchestration tool for docker
No Autoscaling
No storage of container data in external storage
comes with inbuot network - docker 0 network
It provides only an object called service
Command can be run on docker swarm machine and container are created on the same machine
Free version doesnot have any GUI
No such feature
No such feature
No such feature


Kubernetes
We have to install kubernetes manster and worker node
It is a global tool, it can orchestrate containers of any container runtime like CRI-O, contaienrd, docker, RKT containers
Horizontal and vertical auto scaling
external storage association for contaienr data
We have to install container network plugin
"here for every orchestration task there is separate object:
container: Pod
replicas : replicaset object
rolling update: deployment object
port mapping: services
autoscaling: HPA, VPA objects"
Commands by default will be run on master machine and contaienr will be created on worker machines
Has a GUI dashboard
Can be integrated with monitoring tools like prometheus and grafana
Comes with helm for automation
can be integrated with gitops tools
